---
---
# Social Login - List of Sync Field Options in Form Builder
 <strong>Basic Profile Info</strong>

 On User Authentication, when a user has successfully authenticated via a social network, the plugin pulls the user data from the social network to the site and sync with register form fields.

 <strong>Data Members:</strong>

     Field Name   Type   Short description       identifier   String   The Unique user’s ID on the connected provider. Can be an integer for some providers, Email, URL, etc.     profileURL   String   URL link to a profile page on the IDp website     webSiteURL   String   User website, blog, web page,     photoURL   String   URL link to user photo or avatar     displayName   String   User dispalyName provided by the IDp or a concatenation of first and last name.     description   String   A short about\_me     firstName   String   User’s first name     lastName   String   User’s last name     gender   String   User’s gender. Values are ‘female’, ‘male’ or NULL     language   String   User’s language     age   Integer   User’s age, note that we don’t calculate it. We return it as it is.     birthDay   Integer   The day in the month in which the person was born.     birthMonth   Integer   The month in which the person was born.     birthYear   Integer   The year in which the person was born.     email   String   User email. Not all of IDp grant access to the user email     emailVerified   String   Verified user email. Note: not all of IDp grant access to verified user email.     phone   String   User’s phone number     address   String   User’s address     country   String   User’s country     region   String   User’s state or region     city   String   User’s city     zip   Integer   Postal code or zip code.     extend   Array   An extra data is related to the user (e.g followers).